How to initialize the PAN coordinator and nodes for a new network

The network is based on a unique PAN-ID number. The controller  broadcats this number and nodes
can only communicate with the network when they have the same PAN id as the controller. 

An un-commisiond controller first creates a PAN id at random, then uses that same number until
recommisioned as a different network. A uncommisioned node initially queries all network frequencies 
for a controller broadcast and binds to the strongest signal. The Node then uses that controllers 
broadcast PAN id until it gets recommisioned. 

Jumpers on Controller:

A jumper during the bootprocess between EXT2 P10 & 9 , commisions the controller for a new network by erasing its former 
PAN ID. A new PAN ID is then calculated at random during the boot and saved into the EEprom. Once comissioned
the controller keeps this PAN id unless the EEprom is completely erased or it is recommisioned as an other
network controller.


A jumper during operation of the controller between Ext2 Pin 10 and Pin 8 changes the UART behavior. Without
a jumper the Controller is only reporting Sensor readings through the UART in short form. 
With a jumper the controller presents a configuration menu to an attached terminal and some aspects 
such as sensor measurment rate and sleep state can be configured.  

The UART connection parameters are 38Kbd,8n1. Pressing the space bar shows the menu of commands.

Jumpers on routers and end nodes:

A jumper during the bootprocess between ECT2 P10 & 9 binds the Node to the nearest network. The PAN-ID 
is written to ee-prom and is used from that point on until the node gets recommisioned. 

The MAC address of a node is randomly created on first boot on a device with completely erased EEprom,
when the mac adress is reading all 0xff's. 

The lower 12 bits of the MAC address are used for the Node ID field when a sensor is reporting a reading. 

The MAC adress and therefore the sensors ID stays permanently with the device unless the chip is 
completely erases with a programmer.
